The Joe Rogan experience. I wonder where this is going. I really do.
I wonder because this is,
it seems like this new found ability to broadcast that we have with
whether you have a YouTube page or whether you have a Twitter or whatever,
you're doing this new found ability to spread
whatever you're trying to say to so many people with very little understanding
on the most part from what I.
Well, I think it's actually a great thing overall.
It means that any human can broadcast to any other human on the planet at any
time. So for example, if you know,
a totalitarian dictator were to come to power and someone was beating up,
you know, had fascists beating up on old women like that would get broadcast out
instantly. There would be an instant outrage, human cry, rallying.
So in that sense, it helps bring attention to the plight of anybody.
But right now we're going through the phase where we have this new found power
to assemble mobs and people don't know how to deal with that.
So it becomes very easy to set up a mob and have it attack somebody take all the
context out, like even this conversation,
I'm sure people will take out snippets,
put them on social media and try and get somebody outraged. Of course.
And so you have to learn how first of all,
society just has to get over this idea of outrage. Like to me, like outrage,
people are the people that get easily outraged to the stupidest people on social
media. Those are the people I block instantly. Uh,
it's just kind of very low level thinking, right? These are the foot.
These are the foot soldiers in a mob.
Eventually society just has to get over it.
They have to understand that these are all snippets being taken out of context.
These are doctored video clips.
These are just someone who trying to get outraged over something.
Eventually there'll also be anti mob tactics. Like for example, if,
if I go to someone's Twitter feed and all it is it's full of polit political
ranting, raving, conspiracy theories. Do I want to work with this person?
Do I want associate with this person? Do I want to be friends with this person?
Their mind is just cluttered with junk. I don't necessarily blame them.
I think that the human brain is not designed to absorb all of the world's
breaking news,
24 7 emergencies injected straight into your skull with clickbait headline news.
If you pay attention to that stuff, even if you're well-meaning,
even if your sound of mind and body, it will eventually drive you insane.
This goes back to clockwork. Orange where he's, you know,
has his eyes opened up, was forced to watch the news.
But I think that's what's happening right now because these are addictive,
right? Twitter or Facebook, Instagram. These are weaponized.
You have social statisticians and scientists and researchers on people in lab
coats,
literally best minds of our generation and figuring out how to addict you to the
news. And if you fall for it, if you get addicted,
your brain will get destroyed. And I think this is the modern struggle,
the modern struggle. So the ancient struggle used to be the tribal struggle.
You had your tribe of friends and family. You had your religion,
you had your country, you had your loyalty, you had your nationality.
At least you had meaning and support,
but now you would struggle against other tribes, modern life. We're so free.
Everything's become atomized. We stand alone. You live in your apartment alone,
you live in your house alone. Your parents don't live nearby.
Your friends don't live nearby.
You don't have any tribal meaning you don't believe in religion anymore.
You don't believe in country anymore. It's fine. You got a lot of freedom.
It's fantastic.
But now when they come to attack you you're alone
and you can resist. So how do they attack you? It's all.
Well-meaning I don't fault capitalism. I love capitalism.
But look at how it happens. Social media,
they've massaged all the mechanisms to addict you like a Skinner
pigeon or a rat. Who's just going to click, click, click, click, click.
Can't put the phone down the food.
They've taken sugar and they're weaponized it.
They've put it into all these different forms and varieties that you can't
resist eating drugs, right?
They've taken pharmaceuticals and plants and they've synthesized them.
They've grown them in such a way that you can't, you get addicted.
You can't put them down porn, right? If you're a young male,
you wander around the internet. It'll like SAP away, your libido.
And you're not going out in real life society anymore because you've got this
incredibly stimulating stuff coming at you, video games,
another way to addict people. So you have this,
you have entire large factories of people that are working to
addict you to these things and you stand alone.
So the modern struggle as an individual is learning how to resist these things
in the first place, drawing your own boundaries.
And there's no one there to help you.
Ooh, that's terrifying. I mean,
it is new road that needs to be navigated by young people that are,
there's no map. There's no guidebook on how to handle this.
Our generation is the transition generation.
I think our kids will know how to handle it better.
Cause they'll grow up with it.
I hope I hope too,
because you're seeing some ridiculous behavior from people today.
That's so common. I mean, I don't know if you've been paying attention to this,
but there was a guy who he made a,
a video of it turns out it wasn't even him that made the video.
At least that's not what he said,
but it was a video where he sort of doctored Nancy Pelosi talking and made it
look like she was drunk. And then a bunch of people retweeted it and like,
oh my God, look, she's drunk. And, and so one of the online publications,
uh, uh,
some website tracked him down and doxed
him and it turned out he's just a day laborer who is an African-American
Trump fan and thought it would be funny to do that.
And it turns out that he didn't even, at least according to him,
he actually just put it up on his Facebook page.
What's even more disturbing is Facebook gave up his information to this
website, right? For what?
Cause he made something funny that made people seem drunk.
There's a million of those about me. I mean, you could find them. I mean.
I think Facebook and Twitter and a bunch of these other social media platforms
are committing slow motion suicide through these kinds of activities.
That was a stunning one, though, that they would give up this guy,
who's a laborer because he made a parody video or he made someone look foolish
with editing, right?
Have basically the media views it as their job to go after individuals.
They don't like.
I use media with air quotes in that regard because I don't think this is
something that the New York times would have done.
But the media is getting more and more desperate. Right?
Cause what happened was before the internet,
you could have two local newspapers in every town and you could have two local
news stations, TV stations in every town.
And then CNN came along and started commoditizing the news 24, 7 broadcast.
And then the internet came along and that was the final nail in the coffin
because what the internet did was it said, actually,
if there's a fact that's news, you can distribute that immediately.
It can go on Twitter. It can go on Facebook.
It gets reprinted and Google news a thousand times, you know,
you go on Google news. You're like, okay, what's the piece of news,
which source and 3000 other articles too many. Right?
So news has become commoditized.
So the entire news media has shifted into pedaling, opinions and entertainment.
And so now they've become a variation between like cheerleaders shock, troops,
enforcers, uh, you know, talking heads. So these are now tribal.
These are not propaganda machines signaling for their tribes.
It's a right wing one. There's a left wing one, right? There's the alt-right,
there's a control left.
And the two of them are just fighting it out using their various media,
organs and memes. So basically when you see one of these news organizations,
doxing of an individual, that's like a tank running over a soldier.
And if that's what's going on, it's just war. And so there's no,
there's no such thing anymore. As a neutral media commentator, the,
the illusion of objectivity that journalism had is lost.
There's no longer one guy like a Walter Cronkite that everyone's going to listen
to. It's not all just shock troops, fighting wars with each other.
How does this play out? Have you thought about it.
A little bit? Uh, so what the internet does, a lot of this is internet driven.
What the internet does is the internet creates one giant
aggregator or two for everything. One taxi dispatcher,
one e-commerce store, one search engine one, uh, you know,
one social media site for friends and family, one for business, et cetera.
So the internet is this giant aggregator where it creates a one big hedge Amman
for everything.
And it creates an atomized long tail of millions and millions of
individuals. What it gets rid of is the medium, medium size ones in the middle.
So for example, you might've had like seven Hollywood studios.
What's all going to be Netflix. You had, uh, you know, like, uh,
10 large e-commerce players had commerce players from Walmart to, uh,
Costco to, you know, K-Mart and whatever.
It's just gonna be Amazon and a ton of small individual brands.
So that's the world that we're headed towards one hegemonic and millions of
individuals.
So where it ends up longterm is media will be a few gigantic
outlets. You know, it could be the New York times. It could be Facebook,
a few like that.
And there's going to be just a really long tail of millions of independent
people. So this idea of who's a journalist and who's not, you know,
as a Sondra journalists or not, everyone's a journalist,
that's the world that we're headed towards. I do think that extreme power,
the most powerful people in the world today, and this is not well-known,
but the most powerful people in the world today are the people who are writing
the algorithms for Twitter and Facebook and Instagram,
because they're controlling the spread of information.
They're literally rewriting people's brains.
They're programming the culture and they're doing it very subtly like Google.
I believe that one of their execs got up in front of Congress and the
congressmen asked him, uh, you know, do you manipulate search results?
And he said, no, we do not manipulate search results. Really? That's your job.
That is literally all Google does. Google has one job,
which is to manipulate search results,
to pull them out of the noise and rank them properly. And the,
the precise algorithms of how they do that is very hidden, very complex,
but influences the hearts and minds of everybody, including all the voters. Now,
if Google, Facebook and Twitter had been smart about this,
they would not have picked sides. They would have said, we're publishers,
whatever it goes through, our pipes goes through our pipes. If it's illegal,
we'll take it down, give us a court order. Otherwise we don't touch it.
It's like the phone company.
If I call you up and I say something horrible to you on the phone,
the phone company doesn't get in trouble,
but the moment they started taking stuff down that wasn't illegal because
somebody screamed, they basically lost their right to be viewed as a carrier.
And now all of a sudden they're they've taken on liability.
So they're sliding down the slippery slope into ruin slope,
into ruin where the left wants him to take down the right,
the right ones to take down the left. And now they have no more friends.
They have no allies traditionally in the libertarian leaning Republicans and
Democrats would have stood up in principle for the common carriers,
but now they won't. So my guess is as soon as Congress,
and this is the state is coming, if not already here,
it might even have been here today, actually,
because this saw something related in the news, the day is coming.
When the politicians realize that these social media
platforms are picking the next president,
the next Congressman they're literally picking and they have the power to pick.
So they will be controlled by the government.
In, in what way? How do you think they're gonna be controlled?
We think they're going to have to adhere to strict principles of freedom.
No, no. Unfortunately it's headed the opposite direction, right?
I wish it was freedom of speech. Uh, much more likely.
They're going to be in the short to medium term.
They're going to be holding for hearings. Uh, they're going to be pressured,
massively do this. Don't do that.
We're concerned about that. As the hearings that I saw with Zuckerberg,
those people were completely incompetent. They don't seem to understand.
They don't, but they're just applying pressure.
They're just trying to scare him.
So he'll do what they want and what do they want them to do?
They want them to basically suppress the other side. So if you're right-wing,
you want to suppress the left-wing. If you're left-wing,
you want to suppress the right wing.
And if you just see where these companies are headquartered in Silicon valley,
um, all the sensors and that's really what they are.
There are sensors working inside these companies they're just called they're
called by different names, obviously, right? It's doublespeak,
you call it the department. Defense wants the department of war.
So in this case, the department of safety and trust,
when really it's the department of censorship,
the sensors are inside Silicon valley. So it's going to reflect Silicon valley.
Which is extremely progressive left ring. Yeah.
And if you're not that you really have no place. There's I mean,
try being a conservative and open conservative at Google.
Good luck. Now you get lynched. Yeah.
That's crazy. Yeah. I mean,
I don't think that there was ever a thing like that
that was so influential.
And so politically ideologically one sided.
Yeah. There's a, there's a little saying on the internet,
I think it's called conquest law.
That any organization that's not explicitly left right wing,
eventually becomes left wing. And I don't know why that's true,
but it does seem to me to be true.
It's a fascinating battle that's going on right now. I mean, it really is.
And conservatives, and as far as social media is concerned,
they're just getting chopped off at the hams left and right.
Yeah. What will eventually happen is that, uh, whenever you suppress speech,
the organism metastasizes,
then it has to start turning towards other means if you're unlucky goes towards
violence, uh, if you're lucky to find other outlets, uh,
I think what will happen is we will start creating decentralized media.
That's not owned by any single entity that can't be suppressed or shut down that
will then start spreading these various.
Things. And that will take the place of Twitter or Facebook or whatever.
But it's going to take 10 years, 20 years. It's not overnight.
Well, uh, you know,
Twitter took 10 years to get to the point where it's at this mess right now,
but it was so interesting to, to have Jack Dorsey and to,
to talk to him about where it's going, where he thinks he's going,
and then his own principles, which he believes that it's a fundamental, right.
And he believes that freedom of speech is something that we all should have.
And that these platforms should essentially be
like, like utilities, like the electric company.
That's correct. And he has the right vision. It's just,
he's in an organization where the other individuals in the organization feel
differently, very differently. So the organization itself can get hijacked.